______________________
The Soothsayer project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NEWS
----

Soothsayer 0.5 released
-----------------------
Soothsayer 0.5 is now available for <a href="?q=node/16">download</a>.

Soothsayer 0.5 includes the new generalized smoothed n-gram statistical predictive plugin, which supports arbitrary order n-grams. Used in combination with the text2ngram tool, statistical predictions can be generated by n-gram language models of arbitrary cardinality. The new generalized smoothed n-gram predictive plugin also uses an improved heuristic to generate initial completion candidates, by using highest order n-gram statistics, and falling back on lower order n-grams if initial completion set is smaller than required.

This release also includes notable bug fixes and improvements to soothsayer simulator. A bug in the simulator caused the reported Key Stroke Reduction rate to much much lower than the actual KSR achieved by soothsayer.

Soothsayer 0.5 marks a change in project status from alpha to beta. However, it is still to be considered a developer's preview release. This is a source release only. No precompiled packages or installers are provided.

<!--break-->

Users wishing to try out Soothsayer will need to follow the (easy) steps required to build soothsayer on their machine, as detailed in the <a href="soothsayer/trunk/README">README</a> file. Please note that <a href="?q=node/17">SQLite</a> is required to build soothsayer. <a href="?q=node/17">CPPUnit</a> is optional, but be aware that no unit tests will be built nor run when running `make check', unless CPPUnit is installed.

Soothsayer 0.5 has been built and tested on various Linux platforms (including 64 bit architectures) and Windows XP + Cygwin platform. If you encounter any issues while building or running soothsayer, please report it to the <a href="?q=node/19">author</a>.

There is still a lot of work to be done. Currently, Soothsayer is training on a very small training corpus. Predictive performance can be greatly increased by using a larger training corpus. Users can easily generate statistical predictive resources using the text2ngram tool on a custom training text corpus.
New predictive plugins should also be added to take advantage of the multiple predictive source architecture.
Please refer to our TODO list for more details on what needs to be done.


Soothsayer 0.4 released
-----------------------
Soothsayer 0.4 is now available for download.

Soothsayer 0.4 includes the new abbreviation expansion predictive
plugin. This plugin allows users to specify a file containing a list
of abbreviations/expansions pairs. When an abbreviation is entered,
the next generated prediction will contain the associated expansion,
which is typically a commonly used word or phrase.

This release also includes bug fixes and documentation improvements.

Soothsayer 0.4 is a developer's preview release. This is a source
release only. No precompiled packages or installers are provided.

Users wishing to try out Soothsayer will need to follow the (easy)
steps required to build soothsayer on their machine, as detailed in
the README file. Please note that SQLite is required to build
soothsayer. CPPUnit is optional, but be aware that no unit tests will
be built nor run when running `make check', unless CPPUnit is
installed.

Soothsayer 0.4 has been built and tested on various Linux platforms
(including 64 bit architectures) and Windows XP + Cygwin platform. If
you encounter any issues while building or running soothsayer, please
report it to the author.

There is still a lot of work to be done. Currently, the build process
trains Soothsayer predictive plugin with a very limited training
corpus (a single novel).  Predictive performance can be greatly
increased by using a larger training corpus. Users can easily generate
predictive resources using a custom text corpus and the extraction
tools provided.  Currently, the main predictive plugin is a smoothed
uni-bi-tri-gram predictive plugin. The plugin should be extended to be
able to support n-grams of any cardinality. More plugins should also
be added to take advantage of the multiple predictive source
architecture.  Please refer to our TODO list for more details on what
needs to be done.


Soothsayer 0.3 released
-----------------------
Soothsayer 0.3 is now available for download.

Soothsayer 0.3 adds initial support for simultaneous use of multiple
predictive plugins. Multiple predictions combination is carried out
according to a meritocracy policy.

This release also includes bug fixes, memory leak fixes, and
improvements to the demo programs (visual context change cues).

Soothsayer 0.3 adds new configuration variables to control its runtime
predictive behaviour. Configuration handling has been
refactored. Please consult the ChangeLog for more details.

Soothsayer 0.3 is a developer's preview release. This is a source
release only. No precompiled packages or installers are provided.

Users wishing to try Soothsayer out will need to follow the (easy)
steps required to build soothsayer on their machine, as detailed in
the README file. Please note that SQLite is required to build
soothsayer. CPPUnit is optional, but no unit tests will be built when
running `make check', unless CPPUnit is installed.

Soothsayer 0.3 has been built and tested on various Linux platforms
(including 64 bit architectures) and Windows XP + Cygwin platform. If
you encounter any issues while building or running soothsayer, please
report it to the author.

There is still a lot of work to be done. Currently, the build process
trains Soothsayer predictive plugin with a very limited training
corpus (a single novel).  Predictive performance can be greatly
increased by using a larger training corpus. Users can easily generate
predictive resources using a custom text corpus and the extraction
tools provided.  Currently, only one predictive plugin is provided, a
smoothed n-gram predictive plugin. The plugin should be extended to be
able to support n-grams of any cardinality. More plugins should also
be added to take advantage of the multiple predictive source
architecture.  Please refer to our TODO list for more details on what
needs to be done.


Soothsayer 0.2 released
-----------------------
Soothsayer 0.2 is now available for download.

Soothsayer 0.2 adds support for SQLite 2.x and SQLite 3.x. The
soothsayer build system will autodetect which SQLite version is
available and use the most recent version.

This release also includes bug fixes and improvements to the command
line utilities and demo programs. Please consult the ChangeLog for
more details.

Soothsayer 0.2 is a developer's preview release. This is a source
release only. No precompiled packages or installers are provided.

Users wishing to try Soothsayer out will need to follow the (easy)
steps required to build soothsayer on their machine, as detailed in
the README file. Please note that SQLite is required to build
soothsayer. CPPUnit is optional, but no unit tests will be built when
running `make check', unless CPPUnit is installed.

Soothsayer 0.2 has been built and tested on various Linux platforms
(including 64 bit architectures) and Windows XP + Cygwin platform. If
you encounter any issues while building or running soothsayer, please
report it to the author.

There is still a lot of work to be done. Currently, the build process
trains Soothsayer predictive plugin with a very limited training
corpus (a single book).  Predictive performance can be greatly
increased by using a larger training corpus. Users can easily generate
predictive resources using a custom text corpus and the extraction
tools provided.  Currently, only one predictive plugin is provided, a
smoothed n-gram predictive plugin. The plugin should be extended to be
able to support n-grams of any cardinality. More plugins should also
be added to take advantage of the multiple predictive source
architecture.  There is also more work to be done on various modules,
including the combiner module and the configuration module.  Please
refer to our TODO list for more details on what needs to be done.


Soothsayer 0.1.1 released
-------------------------
Soothsayer 0.1.1 is now available for download.

Soothsayer 0.1.1 fixes a problem that caused build failures in a
Windows + Cygwin environment.

Soothsayer 0.1.1 is a developer's preview release. This is a source
release only. No precompiled packages or installers are provided.

Users wishing to try Soothsayer out will need to follow the (easy)
steps required to build soothsayer on their machine, as detailed in
the README. Please note that Sqlite is required to build
soothsayer. CPPUnit is optional, but no unit tests will be built when
running `make test', unless CPPUnit is installed.

Soothsayer 0.1.1 has been built and tested on various Linux platforms
(including 64 bit architectures) and Windows XP + Cygwin platform. If
you encounter any issues while building or running soothsayer, please
report it to the author.

There is still a lot of work to be done. Currently, the build process
trains Soothsayer predictive plugin with a very limited training
corpus (a single book).  Predictive performance can be greatly
increased by using a larger training corpus. Users can easily generate
predictive resources using a custom text corpus and the extraction
tools provided.  Currently, only one predictive plugin is provided, a
smoothed n-gram predictive plugin. The plugin should be extended to be
able to support n-grams of any cardinality. More plugins should also
be added to take advantage of the multiple predictive source
architecture.  There is also more work to be done on various modules,
including the combiner module and the configuration module.  Please
refer to our TODO file for more information on what needs to be done.



Soothsayer 0.1 released
-----------------------
I am proud to announce the first ever release of Soothsayer.

Soothsayer 0.1 is now available for download.

Soothsayer 0.1 is a developer's preview release. This is a source
release only. No precompiled packages or installers are provided.

Users wishing to try Soothsayer out will need to follow the (easy)
steps required to build soothsayer on their machine, as detailed in
the README. Please note that Sqlite is required to build
soothsayer. CPPUnit is optional, but no unit tests will be built when
running `make test', unless CPPUnit is installed.

Soothsayer 0.1 has been built and tested on various Linux platforms
(including 64 bit architectures).  Building on Windows + Cygwin is
temporarily broken.  If you encounter any issues while building or
running soothsayer, please report it to the author.

There is still a lot of work to be done. Currently, the build process
trains Soothsayer predictive plugin with a very limited training
corpus (a single book).  Predictive performance can be greatly
increased by using a larger training corpus. Users can easily generate
predictive resources using a custom text corpus and the extraction
tools provided.  Currently, only one predictive plugin is provided, a
smoothed n-gram predictive plugin. The plugin should be extended to be
able to support n-grams of any cardinality. More plugins should also
be added to take advantage of the multiple predictive source
architecture.  There is also more work to be done on various modules,
including the combiner module and the configuration module.  Please
refer to our TODO file for more information on what needs to be done.

